Document: User Profiles

As of version 0.6.0, LnBlog supports independant, customizable user profiles.  You can add custom 
fields to user profiles using configuration files, which will then automatically show up on the
profile editing pages.  You can also add custom fields on a per-user basis.

Section: Essential Files

Each user profile lives under the LnBlug/userdata directory in a directory named for the user.  So, for 
example, the profile for the username bobsmith would be in the LnBlog/userdata/bobsmith directory.  Note
that, because of this, your usernames will have to be valid file paths.  If you stick to the common 
convention of user ASCII alphanumeric usernames, such as are used for e-mail, then this will not be 
a problem.

The profile directory will contain two critical files.  The first is passwd.php, which holds the 
password hash for this user.  This is a data file and is recreated whenever the user changes his
password.  It uses a .php extension so that the contents will never be sent to a browser (a minor 
security measure).  It simply initializes two variables: $salt, which is a randomly chosen value that
is appended to your password, and $pwd, which is an MD5 hash of your password with the salt concatenated
to it.  

The other file is user.ini, which stores field names and values for the user profile.  The format of
this is a standard INI file, with a single [userdata] section.  This file stores all metadata on a user, 
including the standard fields (real name, e-mail, and homepage) and any custom fields.

Section: Custom Profile Fields

In addition to the standard name, e-mail, and homepage fields, you can add as many custom profile fields
as you like.  To do this, you must create a profile.ini file in your LnBlog/userdata directory.  This
file should have a single [profile fields] section and a list of field=description lines for each 
custom field.  Here is an example:

|[profile fields]
|location=Location
|bday=Birthday
|lang=Favorite programming language
|pubkey=Link to public GPG key

In addition, you can create a profile.ini file inside the profile directory of a particular user.
So, for example, if I want to have the above fields in my profile, but not foist them on other users,
I could simply create the above file in the profile directory for my username, rather than the 
LnBlog/userdata directory.

Section: Adding Custom Markup

If you want a substantial profile, then it's entirely likely that custom fields won't be enough for you.
In that case, you can create a profile.htm file and put it in your user profile directory.  This file
should contain HTML markup.  It will be appended to your profile after the custom fields, so be sure 
that your markup is valid.  